docs/cv/index.md, before:

---
title: "CV"
tags: ["resume", "cv"]
sidebar: auto
---
# Mohamed Bana

📱: [+447960-045-281](tel:+447960-045-281)<br>
📧: [b@bana.io](mailto:b@bana.io)<br>

<https://bana.io><br>
<https://github.com/banaio><br>
<https://uk.linkedin.com/in/mbana><br>
<https://bana.io/cv><br>
<!-- <https://www-bana-io-vue-js.netlify.com/cv/><br> -->

<!--more-->

## Objectives

My main interests are in Rust. And also Golang/Go in the area of the [Language Server protocol](https://langserver.org), see my contributions to <https://github.com/saibing/bingo> in my fork <https://github.com/banaio/bingo>. The Language Server, `bingo` in this case, is used by [`vscode-go`](https://github.com/Microsoft/vscode-go) to provide Golang language support in the IDE. I am passionate about (developer) tooling.

I am a well-rounded Software Engineer, and I understand what it takes to release a product having worked on the back-end, front-end, testing and finally the deployment aspect of several products.

I am looking for a role involving web technologies hosted on a cloud-based backend. I’ve worked on all the tiers of a software product, so I can appreciate the different concerns expressed at each level. I feel the latest trend in web technologies; quick prototyping, large selection of libraries, ease of programming and its cross-platform support is where the future is heading. This, distributed systems and big data algorithms are where I am focusing my current efforts—all of which are equally interesting to me.

<!-- I want to move to Dubai, Abu Dhabi or Kuwait. I have been thinking about this for a while and I think now is the perfect time to move. I would have moved earlier but I felt like I didn’t have enough experience. I am only looking for new opportunities in the UAE, or in other Gulf States, with my preference being Dubai, Abu Dhabi then Kuwait. I should add I can speak formal Arabic which I learnt in an Arabic school in Egypt.

It shouldn't be difficult for me to move to the UAE. I have no children or dependants. I am also single. My family are very supportive and are constantly encouraging me to apply for jobs in the UAE, I feel the time is now right hence I've decided to apply. I have been to Dubai twice, once in 2002 and again in 2010. On the second visit I marvelled at how fast the country had developed, and I also managed to visit Abu Dhabi. I enjoyed both visits so much that I began pondering if I should move there. I have very close connections in Dubai and in nearby countries; I have one friend in Dubai, two friends in Qatar, three friends in Saudi Arabia. In summary: The task of moving will be laborious but not difficult for me as I’ve wanted to move and I have the support of my family and friends to help me do so as well. In addition to this, I have lived in Egypt for four (4) months and I’ve visited the UAE three times. -->

<!-- ## Projects

Added WebSocket (WS) as a transport to [`vscode-languageserver-node`](https://github.com/Microsoft/vscode-languageserver-node), the language client, [Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/) uses to provide rich IDE features, such as completion, hover, definition, etc.  I’ve managed to get the native IDE, vscode, to support WS which required modifying Go code. This project allows the online version of the IDE, [`monaco-editor`](https://microsoft.github.io/monaco-editor/), to talk the Language Server Protocol (LSP) via WS instead of just `stdio` and `tcp` meaning the LSP could be a process running in the cloud.

#### [monaco-go](https://cloud.bana.io/monaco-go)

Big piece of work that is detailed above. Uses Docker heavily and added features to original [`go-langserver`](https://github.com/sourcegraph/go-langserver):

* <https://github.com/banaio/monaco-go>
* <https://github.com/banaio/go-langserver>
* <https://github.com/banaio/jsonrpc2>

#### [monaco-editor-polymer](https://banaio.github.io/monaco-editor-polymer)

Embeds Monaco Editor into Polymer v2.0, <https://github.com/banaio/monaco-editor-polymer>. -->

## Education

* 2008-2009 — MSc Software Systems Engineering (Attended), University College London, and Trading & Financial Market Structure module, London Business School.
* 2005-2008 — BSc Computer Science (2.1), City, University of London.

## Work Experience

<!-- ### Node.js Developer (contractor), Open Banking, 2 Thomas More St, St Katharine's & Wapping, London E1W 1YN - 08/05/2018–29/03/2019 -->
### Full Stack Node.js Developer (contractor), Open Banking Limited, St Katharine's & Wapping, London - 08/05/2018–Present

Working as a full stack developer at Open Banking on a tool that will validate a bank’s implementation of the OpenBanking API spec, see:

* <https://bitbucket.org/openbankingteam/conformance-suite>
* <https://hub.docker.com/u/openbanking/>

**Tech:** Go, Golang, Node.js, [Vue.js](https://vuejs.org/), [Vuex](https://vuex.vuejs.org/), Jest, Docker, Docker Compose, Kubernetes, [OpenID Connect](https://openid.net/connect/), [JSON Web Token (JWT)](https://jwt.io/), [Kompose](http://kompose.io/), [CircleCI](https://circleci.com/), [Swagger](https://swagger.io/), WebSocket, Bitbucket Pipelines, OpenAPI 3.0.

<!-- ### Senior Engineer (contractor), Ninety Percent Of Everything Limited, 7th Floor, Portman House, 2 Portman Street, London, United Kingdom, W1H 6DU - 01/02/2018–20/04/2018 -->
### Senior Engineer (contractor), Ninety Percent Of Everything Limited, Marble Arch, London - 01/02/2018–20/04/2018

Worked at startup specialising in software that runs on ship on two projects that were heavily Go-based.

**`platform-document-storage-service`**:
Document storage and retrieval to be used by others services, so it's a core service. The core of the service was written in Go and exposed using [gRPC](https://grpc.io/) and http using [go gorilla/mux](https://github.com/gorilla/mux). Both write and retrieve supported arbitrarily large files which was achieved using gRPC unidirectional streams. The underlying store was MongoDB's [GridsFS](https://docs.mongodb.com/manual/core/gridfs/) which I interfaced with using the Go driver [mgo](https://gopkg.in/mgo.v2).

**`auditing`**:
Currently working on this. The service is structured very similar to the preceding in that the underlying service is exposed using gRPC but the top-level interface is done using [GraphQL](graphql.org). I wrote the GraphQL server in go using [graphql-go](https://github.com/graph-gophers/graphql-go). The underlying store is in Postgres and the library I used to interact with it is [GORM](http://gorm.io/).

**Tech:** Go, Golang, gRPC, Protocol Buffers, MongoDB, GraphQL, go gorilla/mux, Docker, Docker Compose, Kubernetes, NodeJS, Jest, [Concourse CI](https://concourse-ci.org/), Postgres.

### Full Stack Developer (contractor), Root Capital LLP, London Bridge, London - 09/10/2017–24/12/2017

Worked as a full stack Node.js developer on the [Minds for Life](https://mindsforlife.com/) application, mainly on the forum.

**Frontend:**

* `react`, `react-redux`, [react-boilerplate](https://www.reactboilerplate.com/).
* Single Page Application (SPA) targeting mobile platforms.
* `ES56` using most of the latest ES56 features; `async`, `await`, `classes` etc.
* Serveless and hosted on [Amazon S3](https://aws.amazon.com/s3/) as static assets, with [Amazon CloudFront](http://aws.amazon.com/cloudfront/) as the CDN.

**Backend:**

* NodeJS server written in `ES6`, like the frontend.
* [Koa](http://koajs.com).
* MySQL as the datastore, using the [Knex.js](http://knexjs.org/) library.
* Packaged as a set of `docker` containers.

**CI, Devops and Infrastructure:**

* Services were packaged as containers. Used `docker` and `docker-compose` to start them.
* Builds managed by [Semaphore CI](https://semaphoreci.com) and [Wercker](http://www.wercker.com/).

**Tech:** JavaScript, ES6, Node.js, react, react-redux, react-boilerplate, Webpack, Koa, Knex.js, Sequel Pro, Docker, Docker Compose, Kubernetes, Semaphore CI, Wercker.

### Full Stack Node Developer (contractor), Lloyds Banking Group PLC, London Bridge, London - 20/03/2017–22/05/2017

**NodeJS - JavaScript:**

* Loopback for server-side of the code.
* ES5/6-based code base.

**Monitoring/Devops/Misc:**

* <https://github.com/banaio/cf-utils>.
* Splunk and sending logs via (<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Syslog>) a LogDrain service available on Bluemix.
* Gerrit for managing code.
CI:
* Jenkins: Configuring, managing and installing.
* Jenkins 2: Same as previous plus writing pipeline scripts.

### Senior Front-End Engineer, Synthace Ltd. King's Cross, London - 13/04/2016–04/11/2016

Did a fair amount of architectural UI work:

* JWT-based authentication: Implemented most, if not all, of the authentication related UI features. Polymer didn’t have an authentication module as it’s fairly new requiring me to reimplement this feature.
* API interactions: I introduced Swagger JS and did the conversion from plain XHR to Promises, and ensured API was in-sync with the state of the authentication.
* Updates via the Web Socket for notifications and async task updates: STOMP Over WebSocket.
* Bootstrapped the testing using Web Component Tester.
* Deciding on the build, test and hosting strategy, e.g., hosting our own CDN using Azure.
* Performance: 1) pushed to have HTTP/2 enabled, and prototyped, on our custom server written in Go, 2) implemented lazy-loading of our Web Components which are included using HTML Imports, 3) Significantly improved UI build scripts; went from a somewhat un-deterministic build to one that almost always runs.
* Introduced ES6 to the code-base, and moving to defining Polymer elements using ES6 classes.
* Misc: libraries/utils to ease UI development.

We deploy Docker images to our Kubernetes cluster running in Azure using:

* Docker: Fairly comfortable using this.
* Kubernetes: I've done deployments of dev branches, so I understand the deployment model, navigating the Kubernetes dashboard and crude command line interactions, e.g., port-forwarding of the service the pod is running from the cluster to the local machine.

I’m finishing up on adding support for our language Antha to Monaco Editor, the editor that powers Visual Studio Code.

Since this is a startup I have done a fair amount of work and I have been given a fair share of responsibility, more so than any of my prior roles.

**Tech:** JavaScript, ES6, Polymer, Web Components, TypeScript, VSCode, Azure, Docker, Kubernetes, Go, Web Component Tester, Git, Swagger.

### Developer, IG Index Ltd. Cannon Bridge, London - 09-2014–18/02/2016

#### JavaScript Developer

* *Price & Indicator Alerts:* My main responsibility was handling the UI aspect—setting, configuring, triggering—of the various Alerts we support, from the basic Price Alert to Technical Indicators such as RSI and Moving Average. Tech New: Modern UI powered by ES2015 (Babel), Ember.js, Handlebars and Less. The UI was then composed of isolated and reusable Ember components. Runs on a NodeJS server, managed with npm and bower, and version controlled using Git. Integration and unit tests written in Mocha then run using Karma. **Tech Old:** Vanilla JavaScript using an in-house framework when changing the previous UI.
* *Charts:* Assisted in the conversion of the Adobe Flex Real Time Charts to an SVG-based version. **Tech:** d3 and tested like above.
* *Deeplinking:* A hashed action link, like typical deeplinks, that we send to our Clients which then launches the mobile IG app, or directs them to the app store for the device with the IG app pre-selected. Upon login the action is carried out automatically. I did the bulk of the work with the team lead overseeing it. **Tech:** Java 8, Spring and acceptance tested using Cucumber. Redirecting and launching of the IG app was done using vanilla JavaScript.

Due to the nature of the work, I cannot disclose too much detail.

### Software Developer, ITRS (International Trading Room Software) Group Ltd. Moorgate, London - 02-2010–09/2014

#### JavaScript (UI) Developer, 01/2014–09/2014

UI for the next generation of the product which is built around, loosely speaking, a real-time distributed analytics store. The aim is for the old system to stream data to the new system so we can provide all the great visualizations available in the HTML ecosystem, which was not achievable in a reasonable amount of time in Swing.

The code is entirely modularized using RequireJS so we can test each viewmodel without creating a view, we then test the entire UI (end-to-end tests) using WebDriverJS.

Some Java/C coding required to write NodeJS bindings to interact with the store.
We evaluated several frameworks, Angular, Batman and KnockoutJS, by writing prototype applications that connected to our backend for a period of roughly 4-6 months before we chose to settle on Knockout.js.

**Tech:** JavaScript, NodeJS, Node-WebKit, Durandal, KnockoutJS, RequireJS, Git, Jasmine, Protractor (WebDriverJS), Jenkins, Bower, HTML5, CSS, LoopBack.io.

#### Java (UI) Developer - 07/2012–12/2013

Worked with two developers and one QA member on a new Swing UI, ACLite, that uses our new  streaming-based API to access Geneos data, for more info. see <https://resources.itrsgroup.com/OpenAccess>. We access data from a fault-tolerant Cluster that is built on a set of distributed nodes. The system we coded against is somewhat similar to the Amazon distributed key/value store, DynamoDB, except with support for streaming, so I am familiar with dealing with distributed systems.

**Tech:** Java, Maven, Swing, Eclipse, Jenkins, Git, Vagrant.

#### C++ Developer - 02/2010–06/2012

Spent one year with Run The Business (RTB) team, a team set-up to fix critical bugs that Customers encounter. A very challenging role which requires all-around product knowledge, good debugging skills and being able to liaise with our Support staff in dealing with the Customers. Prior to this I was one of three developers working in the Transactions and Latency Monitoring team (part of the backend team) doing core C++. We wrote and maintained the following plug-ins that are part of the Geneos suite:

1. FIX-Analyser: Monitors FIX (protocol) messages.
2. Feed Latency Monitor: Monitors feeds and calculates latency of instruments and fields across the monitored feeds.
3. Message Tracker: Tracks, generally, FIX messages across several checkpoints.
4. Market Data Reliability: See below. And bespoke plug-ins written for specific firms.

We also maintained several non-finance specific plug-ins. I ported another bespoke plug-in called Price Latency Monitor (provides latency figures for bonds) to MS VC++ when I worked on this team.
Projects:

* I converted the Windows version of the entire product suite from Visual Studio 2005 to 2010.
* I wrote the Market Data Reliability plug-in. This plug-in connects to the Patsystem's Trading API  (www.patsystems.com) to monitor commodity prices, using their C API, to determine if prices are 'stale'.
* I ported a significant part of our product to Solaris x86-64 (64-bit non-sparc architecture).

**Tech:** C++, STL, Boost, Visual Studio, Linux/Unix, GDB, DBX, Make, Configure, XML, XPath, CPPUnit.

### Software Developer Intern, then Tester, Thomson Reuters. Canary Wharf, London - 05-2009–11-2009

#### C# Developer

One of four developers working on a search and navigation interface to Global Product Search. Full life-cycle of development; requirements engineering, analysis and design to implementation, testing and deployment.

**Tech:**  C#, Silverlight 3.0, MS SQL Server 2005, LINQ, Web Services (WCF), XML and Visual Studio 2008. I handled deployment using CruiseControl.NET.

#### Tester

User Acceptance Testing of the latest release of Thomson Reuter's 3000 Extra, then called UTAH, now called Eikon. UTAH combines the data from Thomson and Reuters. My primary responsibilities were to validate the end product against pre-defined requirements/workflows. 1. Worked on Thomson Reuters project UTAH as part of a large team. 2. Tasks included testing, observing, documenting software bugs, issues and errors before final release of Utah. 3. Testing was done over multiple iterations.

## Additional Info

### Misc

Full UK driving licence.

### Languages:

* English and Swahili: Native.
* Arabic: Basic to intermediate.

### Tech

I’ve played with Scala when it was in its infancy. I wrote an Eclipse plug-in, <https://github.com/mbana/MOODMetricsPlug-in>, which calculates the set of metrics called MOOD (Paper: [An Evaluation of the MOOD Set of Object-Oriented Software Metrics](http://citeseerx.ist.psu.edu/viewdoc/summary?doi=10.1.1.196.7613)) on Java soure code. The plug-in works by using Eclipse’s internal compiler API to get an AST of the Java code and calculating the metrics.

Commit message:

Add Moroccan Mobile Number and Moroccan House Number.

docs/cv/index.md, after:

---
title: "CV"
tags: ["resume", "cv"]
sidebar: auto
---
# Mohamed Bana

📱: [+44-7960-045-281](tel:+44-7960-045-281) (UK Mobile)<br>
📱: [+212-624-846935](tel:+212-624-846935) (Moroccan Mobile)<br>
📱: [+212-80-8526830](tel:+212-80-8526830) (Moroccan Home Landline)<br>
📧: [m@bana.io](mailto:m@bana.io)<br>
📧: [b@bana.io](mailto:b@bana.io)<br>

<https://bana.io><br>
<https://github.com/banaio><br>
<https://uk.linkedin.com/in/mbana><br>
<https://bana.io/cv><br>
<!-- <https://www-bana-io-vue-js.netlify.com/cv/><br> -->

<!--more-->

## Objectives

Please, *_ONLY_* contact me about remote roles that meet these conditions:

* Golang/Go roles.
* Vue.js roles.
* I am up for learning more of Rust. It's just a hobby at the moment.
* Roles where Linux, Google Cloud Platform or Azure, Docker and Open Banking are being used.

I kindly request that you respect my requests and do not spam me about roles that don't fit these criteria.

My main interests are in Rust, Golang/Go and Vue.js.

<!-- My main interests are in Rust. And also Golang/Go in the area of the [Language Server protocol](https://langserver.org), see my contributions to <https://github.com/saibing/bingo> in my fork <https://github.com/banaio/bingo>. The Language Server, `bingo` in this case, is used by [`vscode-go`](https://github.com/Microsoft/vscode-go) to provide Golang language support in the IDE. I am passionate about (developer) tooling. -->

I am a well-rounded Software Engineer, and I understand what it takes to release a product having worked on the back-end, front-end, testing and finally the deployment aspect of several products.

I am looking for a role involving web technologies hosted on a cloud-based backend. I’ve worked on all the tiers of a software product, so I can appreciate the different concerns expressed at each level. I feel the latest trend in web technologies; quick prototyping, large selection of libraries, ease of programming and its cross-platform support is where the future is heading. This, distributed systems and big data algorithms are where I am focusing my current efforts—all of which are equally interesting to me.

<!-- I want to move to Dubai, Abu Dhabi or Kuwait. I have been thinking about this for a while and I think now is the perfect time to move. I would have moved earlier but I felt like I didn’t have enough experience. I am only looking for new opportunities in the UAE, or in other Gulf States, with my preference being Dubai, Abu Dhabi then Kuwait. I should add I can speak formal Arabic which I learnt in an Arabic school in Egypt.

It shouldn't be difficult for me to move to the UAE. I have no children or dependants. I am also single. My family are very supportive and are constantly encouraging me to apply for jobs in the UAE, I feel the time is now right hence I've decided to apply. I have been to Dubai twice, once in 2002 and again in 2010. On the second visit I marvelled at how fast the country had developed, and I also managed to visit Abu Dhabi. I enjoyed both visits so much that I began pondering if I should move there. I have very close connections in Dubai and in nearby countries; I have one friend in Dubai, two friends in Qatar, three friends in Saudi Arabia. In summary: The task of moving will be laborious but not difficult for me as I’ve wanted to move and I have the support of my family and friends to help me do so as well. In addition to this, I have lived in Egypt for four (4) months and I’ve visited the UAE three times. -->

<!-- ## Projects

Added WebSocket (WS) as a transport to [`vscode-languageserver-node`](https://github.com/Microsoft/vscode-languageserver-node), the language client, [Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/) uses to provide rich IDE features, such as completion, hover, definition, etc.  I’ve managed to get the native IDE, vscode, to support WS which required modifying Go code. This project allows the online version of the IDE, [`monaco-editor`](https://microsoft.github.io/monaco-editor/), to talk the Language Server Protocol (LSP) via WS instead of just `stdio` and `tcp` meaning the LSP could be a process running in the cloud.

#### [monaco-go](https://cloud.bana.io/monaco-go)

Big piece of work that is detailed above. Uses Docker heavily and added features to original [`go-langserver`](https://github.com/sourcegraph/go-langserver):

* <https://github.com/banaio/monaco-go>
* <https://github.com/banaio/go-langserver>
* <https://github.com/banaio/jsonrpc2>

#### [monaco-editor-polymer](https://banaio.github.io/monaco-editor-polymer)

Embeds Monaco Editor into Polymer v2.0, <https://github.com/banaio/monaco-editor-polymer>. -->

## Education

* 2008-2009 — MSc Software Systems Engineering (Attended), University College London, and Trading & Financial Market Structure module, London Business School.
* 2005-2008 — BSc Computer Science (2.1), City, University of London.

## Work Experience

<!-- ### Node.js Developer (contractor), Open Banking, 2 Thomas More St, St Katharine's & Wapping, London E1W 1YN - 08/05/2018–29/03/2019 -->
### Full Stack Node.js Developer (contractor), Open Banking Limited, St Katharine's & Wapping, London - 08/05/2018–Present

Working as a full stack developer at Open Banking on a tool that will validate a bank’s implementation of the OpenBanking API spec, see:

* <https://bitbucket.org/openbankingteam/conformance-suite>
* <https://hub.docker.com/u/openbanking/>

**Tech:** Go, Golang, Node.js, [Vue.js](https://vuejs.org/), [Vuex](https://vuex.vuejs.org/), Jest, Docker, Docker Compose, Kubernetes, [OpenID Connect](https://openid.net/connect/), [JSON Web Token (JWT)](https://jwt.io/), [Kompose](http://kompose.io/), [CircleCI](https://circleci.com/), [Swagger](https://swagger.io/), WebSocket, Bitbucket Pipelines, OpenAPI 3.0.

<!-- ### Senior Engineer (contractor), Ninety Percent Of Everything Limited, 7th Floor, Portman House, 2 Portman Street, London, United Kingdom, W1H 6DU - 01/02/2018–20/04/2018 -->
### Senior Engineer (contractor), Ninety Percent Of Everything Limited, Marble Arch, London - 01/02/2018–20/04/2018

Worked at startup specialising in software that runs on ship on two projects that were heavily Go-based.

**`platform-document-storage-service`**:
Document storage and retrieval to be used by others services, so it's a core service. The core of the service was written in Go and exposed using [gRPC](https://grpc.io/) and http using [go gorilla/mux](https://github.com/gorilla/mux). Both write and retrieve supported arbitrarily large files which was achieved using gRPC unidirectional streams. The underlying store was MongoDB's [GridsFS](https://docs.mongodb.com/manual/core/gridfs/) which I interfaced with using the Go driver [mgo](https://gopkg.in/mgo.v2).

**`auditing`**:
Currently working on this. The service is structured very similar to the preceding in that the underlying service is exposed using gRPC but the top-level interface is done using [GraphQL](graphql.org). I wrote the GraphQL server in go using [graphql-go](https://github.com/graph-gophers/graphql-go). The underlying store is in Postgres and the library I used to interact with it is [GORM](http://gorm.io/).

**Tech:** Go, Golang, gRPC, Protocol Buffers, MongoDB, GraphQL, go gorilla/mux, Docker, Docker Compose, Kubernetes, NodeJS, Jest, [Concourse CI](https://concourse-ci.org/), Postgres.

### Full Stack Developer (contractor), Root Capital LLP, London Bridge, London - 09/10/2017–24/12/2017

Worked as a full stack Node.js developer on the [Minds for Life](https://mindsforlife.com/) application, mainly on the forum.

**Frontend:**

* `react`, `react-redux`, [react-boilerplate](https://www.reactboilerplate.com/).
* Single Page Application (SPA) targeting mobile platforms.
* `ES56` using most of the latest ES56 features; `async`, `await`, `classes` etc.
* Serveless and hosted on [Amazon S3](https://aws.amazon.com/s3/) as static assets, with [Amazon CloudFront](http://aws.amazon.com/cloudfront/) as the CDN.

**Backend:**

* NodeJS server written in `ES6`, like the frontend.
* [Koa](http://koajs.com).
* MySQL as the datastore, using the [Knex.js](http://knexjs.org/) library.
* Packaged as a set of `docker` containers.

**CI, Devops and Infrastructure:**

* Services were packaged as containers. Used `docker` and `docker-compose` to start them.
* Builds managed by [Semaphore CI](https://semaphoreci.com) and [Wercker](http://www.wercker.com/).

**Tech:** JavaScript, ES6, Node.js, react, react-redux, react-boilerplate, Webpack, Koa, Knex.js, Sequel Pro, Docker, Docker Compose, Kubernetes, Semaphore CI, Wercker.

### Full Stack Node Developer (contractor), Lloyds Banking Group PLC, London Bridge, London - 20/03/2017–22/05/2017

**NodeJS - JavaScript:**

* Loopback for server-side of the code.
* ES5/6-based code base.

**Monitoring/Devops/Misc:**

* <https://github.com/banaio/cf-utils>.
* Splunk and sending logs via (<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Syslog>) a LogDrain service available on Bluemix.
* Gerrit for managing code.
CI:
* Jenkins: Configuring, managing and installing.
* Jenkins 2: Same as previous plus writing pipeline scripts.

### Senior Front-End Engineer, Synthace Ltd. King's Cross, London - 13/04/2016–04/11/2016

Did a fair amount of architectural UI work:

* JWT-based authentication: Implemented most, if not all, of the authentication related UI features. Polymer didn’t have an authentication module as it’s fairly new requiring me to reimplement this feature.
* API interactions: I introduced Swagger JS and did the conversion from plain XHR to Promises, and ensured API was in-sync with the state of the authentication.
* Updates via the Web Socket for notifications and async task updates: STOMP Over WebSocket.
* Bootstrapped the testing using Web Component Tester.
* Deciding on the build, test and hosting strategy, e.g., hosting our own CDN using Azure.
* Performance: 1) pushed to have HTTP/2 enabled, and prototyped, on our custom server written in Go, 2) implemented lazy-loading of our Web Components which are included using HTML Imports, 3) Significantly improved UI build scripts; went from a somewhat un-deterministic build to one that almost always runs.
* Introduced ES6 to the code-base, and moving to defining Polymer elements using ES6 classes.
* Misc: libraries/utils to ease UI development.

We deploy Docker images to our Kubernetes cluster running in Azure using:

* Docker: Fairly comfortable using this.
* Kubernetes: I've done deployments of dev branches, so I understand the deployment model, navigating the Kubernetes dashboard and crude command line interactions, e.g., port-forwarding of the service the pod is running from the cluster to the local machine.

I’m finishing up on adding support for our language Antha to Monaco Editor, the editor that powers Visual Studio Code.

Since this is a startup I have done a fair amount of work and I have been given a fair share of responsibility, more so than any of my prior roles.

**Tech:** JavaScript, ES6, Polymer, Web Components, TypeScript, VSCode, Azure, Docker, Kubernetes, Go, Web Component Tester, Git, Swagger.

### Developer, IG Index Ltd. Cannon Bridge, London - 09-2014–18/02/2016

#### JavaScript Developer

* *Price & Indicator Alerts:* My main responsibility was handling the UI aspect—setting, configuring, triggering—of the various Alerts we support, from the basic Price Alert to Technical Indicators such as RSI and Moving Average. Tech New: Modern UI powered by ES2015 (Babel), Ember.js, Handlebars and Less. The UI was then composed of isolated and reusable Ember components. Runs on a NodeJS server, managed with npm and bower, and version controlled using Git. Integration and unit tests written in Mocha then run using Karma. **Tech Old:** Vanilla JavaScript using an in-house framework when changing the previous UI.
* *Charts:* Assisted in the conversion of the Adobe Flex Real Time Charts to an SVG-based version. **Tech:** d3 and tested like above.
* *Deeplinking:* A hashed action link, like typical deeplinks, that we send to our Clients which then launches the mobile IG app, or directs them to the app store for the device with the IG app pre-selected. Upon login the action is carried out automatically. I did the bulk of the work with the team lead overseeing it. **Tech:** Java 8, Spring and acceptance tested using Cucumber. Redirecting and launching of the IG app was done using vanilla JavaScript.

Due to the nature of the work, I cannot disclose too much detail.

### Software Developer, ITRS (International Trading Room Software) Group Ltd. Moorgate, London - 02-2010–09/2014

#### JavaScript (UI) Developer, 01/2014–09/2014

UI for the next generation of the product which is built around, loosely speaking, a real-time distributed analytics store. The aim is for the old system to stream data to the new system so we can provide all the great visualizations available in the HTML ecosystem, which was not achievable in a reasonable amount of time in Swing.

The code is entirely modularized using RequireJS so we can test each viewmodel without creating a view, we then test the entire UI (end-to-end tests) using WebDriverJS.

Some Java/C coding required to write NodeJS bindings to interact with the store.
We evaluated several frameworks, Angular, Batman and KnockoutJS, by writing prototype applications that connected to our backend for a period of roughly 4-6 months before we chose to settle on Knockout.js.

**Tech:** JavaScript, NodeJS, Node-WebKit, Durandal, KnockoutJS, RequireJS, Git, Jasmine, Protractor (WebDriverJS), Jenkins, Bower, HTML5, CSS, LoopBack.io.

#### Java (UI) Developer - 07/2012–12/2013

Worked with two developers and one QA member on a new Swing UI, ACLite, that uses our new  streaming-based API to access Geneos data, for more info. see <https://resources.itrsgroup.com/OpenAccess>. We access data from a fault-tolerant Cluster that is built on a set of distributed nodes. The system we coded against is somewhat similar to the Amazon distributed key/value store, DynamoDB, except with support for streaming, so I am familiar with dealing with distributed systems.

**Tech:** Java, Maven, Swing, Eclipse, Jenkins, Git, Vagrant.

#### C++ Developer - 02/2010–06/2012

Spent one year with Run The Business (RTB) team, a team set-up to fix critical bugs that Customers encounter. A very challenging role which requires all-around product knowledge, good debugging skills and being able to liaise with our Support staff in dealing with the Customers. Prior to this I was one of three developers working in the Transactions and Latency Monitoring team (part of the backend team) doing core C++. We wrote and maintained the following plug-ins that are part of the Geneos suite:

1. FIX-Analyser: Monitors FIX (protocol) messages.
2. Feed Latency Monitor: Monitors feeds and calculates latency of instruments and fields across the monitored feeds.
3. Message Tracker: Tracks, generally, FIX messages across several checkpoints.
4. Market Data Reliability: See below. And bespoke plug-ins written for specific firms.

We also maintained several non-finance specific plug-ins. I ported another bespoke plug-in called Price Latency Monitor (provides latency figures for bonds) to MS VC++ when I worked on this team.
Projects:

* I converted the Windows version of the entire product suite from Visual Studio 2005 to 2010.
* I wrote the Market Data Reliability plug-in. This plug-in connects to the Patsystem's Trading API  (www.patsystems.com) to monitor commodity prices, using their C API, to determine if prices are 'stale'.
* I ported a significant part of our product to Solaris x86-64 (64-bit non-sparc architecture).

**Tech:** C++, STL, Boost, Visual Studio, Linux/Unix, GDB, DBX, Make, Configure, XML, XPath, CPPUnit.

### Software Developer Intern, then Tester, Thomson Reuters. Canary Wharf, London - 05-2009–11-2009

#### C# Developer

One of four developers working on a search and navigation interface to Global Product Search. Full life-cycle of development; requirements engineering, analysis and design to implementation, testing and deployment.

**Tech:**  C#, Silverlight 3.0, MS SQL Server 2005, LINQ, Web Services (WCF), XML and Visual Studio 2008. I handled deployment using CruiseControl.NET.

#### Tester

User Acceptance Testing of the latest release of Thomson Reuter's 3000 Extra, then called UTAH, now called Eikon. UTAH combines the data from Thomson and Reuters. My primary responsibilities were to validate the end product against pre-defined requirements/workflows. 1. Worked on Thomson Reuters project UTAH as part of a large team. 2. Tasks included testing, observing, documenting software bugs, issues and errors before final release of Utah. 3. Testing was done over multiple iterations.

## Additional Info

### Misc

Full UK driving licence.

### Languages:

* English and Swahili: Native.
* Arabic: Basic to intermediate.

### Tech

I’ve played with Scala when it was in its infancy. I wrote an Eclipse plug-in, <https://github.com/mbana/MOODMetricsPlug-in>, which calculates the set of metrics called MOOD (Paper: [An Evaluation of the MOOD Set of Object-Oriented Software Metrics](http://citeseerx.ist.psu.edu/viewdoc/summary?doi=10.1.1.196.7613)) on Java soure code. The plug-in works by using Eclipse’s internal compiler API to get an AST of the Java code and calculating the metrics.
